---
layout: post
title: To which project do I want to contribute?
permalink: /perma/2003/07/13/to-which-project-do-i-want-to-contribute/
post_id: 13
categories: 
- Open source
- Software Development
---

Developing… I’d like to contribute!

I’ve made small contributions to open source projects. Someone on the <a title="Popfile" href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/popfile.sf.net/">translation front</a>, others by contributing <a title="Anthill" href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/anthill.vmlinuz.ca/">idea’s and/or actual code</a>. But I’d like to do more (after all I’ve been using open source software so much!). One of the things I always dread is to ‘get into the project’. You have to read so much: how is the architecture, get all the dependencies, read the policies regarding commit access, testing, etc. So I’m trying to select a project on which I want to focus for the next few months, trying to come up with some useful patches in my free time. A couple of candidates: <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.apache.org/">Apache</a>, <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/subversion.tigris.org/">Subversion</a>, <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/anthill.vmlinuz.ca/">Anthill</a>, <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.binarycloud.com/phing/">Phing</a>/<a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.binarycloud.com/">Binary Cloud</a>, <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.php.net/"><span class="caps"><span style="text-decoration: none">PHP5</span></span></a> and <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.mozilla.org/">Mozilla</a>. All these projects touch my professional work as well, and that is A Good Thing^(tm)^. I’d like to walk through these projects one by one. (This it actually not to inform you of something I’m going to do, just my ‘internal’ decision making process, exposed to the rest of the world. Read it or disregard it as you see fit :-o).

What would I like to find in a project on which I’m going to work in my (so scarce) free time?

*Multiplatform*: I’d like to do something that I could use/develop on Linux as well as on windows (the latter having less priority of course).

*Perspective*: It should be a project that has a lifetime in front of it (not something that is going to be replaced in a few years, e.g. <span class="caps">CVS</span>).

*Language*: Preferably a compiled language (C/C++/Java/etc.) instead of an interpreted language (PHP/Perl/etc) because that’s what I work with professionally. I’d like to keep my skills sharp over the entire line.

*Documentation*: A project with a good organization has the advantage (e.g. <span class="caps">RFC</span>’s/bug reports etc. are input to a starting contributor). <span class="caps">A HACKING</span> file or some other documentation to orientate starting developers is an advantage!

*Easy Compile-Run-Debug cycle*: I’d like to contribute to the Linux kernel but compiling the kernel, installing it, rebooting it… that’s too long a cycle for yours truly.

*Coolness factor*: this property of a project is undefined but working on some projects is just cooler than working on other projects (e.g. Linux kernel is way cool, writing man pages is definitely not :-?).

*Need for developers*: some projects are developed into their 2.x versions. Clearly they don’t need the developers as much as a 0.1beta project. If you want to contribute something the latter has more need of you.
<p style="margin-bottom: 12pt">Albright, here is my decision matrix^(tm)^.



<table width="70%" cellpadding="0" border="0" class="MsoNormalTable">

<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Apache



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Subversion



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Anthill



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Phing/BC



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal"><span class="caps">PHP5</span>



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Mozilla



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Multiplatform



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Perspective



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Language



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7,5



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Documentation



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Devel-cycle



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Coolness



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7,5



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">9



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Developers needed



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">6



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">8



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">7



|


<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">Totals



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*49,5*



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*_54,5_*



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*47*



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*49*



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*50*



<td style="padding: 0.75pt">
<p class="MsoNormal">*50,5*



|


<p class="MsoNormal">

^(Blab bla: my opinion, would like comments, this is _my_ opinion, these values may or may not be based on the truth)^

Well if you’d take this table, I’d go working on Subversion… I’d like that very much. But, this table itself is not definitive. So if you, the reader, know any topics on which the above projects should be judged, before choosing a project, please tell me and I’ll include them in the above table. The same goes if you know of any projects that might be cool for me to join. <a href="mailto:ojilles@gmail.com">Mail me!</a> or place a comment here, or backtrack, whatever you like.

First I’ve got some other stuff to finish, and in the meantime I can read documentation and stuff, to get into this new project…