---
layout: post
title: SpeedDEV
permalink: /perma/2004/05/11/speeddev/
post_id: 16
categories: 
- Software Development
---

Well, today I’ve had a long discussion with someone from <a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.speedev.com/">SpeedDEV</a>. I’ve been in touch with them for a little while now. They make something that lets itself describe best (in my own words) as
bq. “An Issue and Requirements tracking application with advanced functionality for process and project management with a very high level of automation and flexibility.”
<p class="MsoNormal">The employees are very nice to me and very helpful. Two things surprise me about this company and its product:



<ul type="disc">
<li class="MsoNormal">I have never seen a greater      difference between a companies own website and the product it has      developed. The product SpeeDEV is something that struck with me amazement      (such a good and thoroughly developed product!). Yet, if you look at their      company website it looks like it was developed by a bunch of high school      students.</li>
</ul>
<ul type="disc">
<li class="MsoNormal">The product itself is by far      the most thoroughly developed product in the Issue/Requirements tracking market      I’ve seen till today. (I’ve seen a lot of these products already. That’s      not to say that I’ve seen everything, but still says something about      SpeeDEV.) For example, the entire application is web based. They advert      with a process automation engine and an editor to go with that. You’d      expect some half-baked solution in <span class="caps">DHTML</span> that will      barely do what you want it to do. But not SpeeDEV, oh no! It comes with an      entire editor that would behave just like a desktop application (ala Visio      or the like) to define the process you want. Perfect!</li>
</ul>
In time to come I’ll report more often on SpeeDEV. One reason for that is that on the web there is almost nothing to be found about this product except on the company website (<a href="http://www.jilles.net/wp-admin/http:/www.google.com/search?as_q=speedev&num=10&hl=en&ie=UTF-8&oe=UTF-8&btnG=Google+Search&as_epq=&as_oq=&as_eq=&lr=&as_ft=i&as_filetype=&as_qdr=all&as_nlo=&as_nhi=&as_occt=any&as_dt=e&as_sitesearch=speedev.com&safe=images">Google</a> turns up only 679 results for example). And that’s pretty exceptional for a product that is in its 4.x version series.